Agent documentation (#733)
grafana/tempo: docs/tempo/website/grafana-agent/_index.md

On top of receiving and exporting traces, the Grafana Agent contains many 
features that make your distributed tracing system more robust, and 
leverages all the data that is processed in the pipeline.

## Architecture

The Grafana Agent can be configured to run a set of tracing pipelines to collect data from your applications and write it to Tempo.
Pipelines are built using OpenTelemetry,
and its architecture mirrors that of the OTel Collector's [design](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/846b971758c92b833a9efaf742ec5b3e2fbd0c89/docs/design.md).
See the [configuration reference](https://github.com/grafana/agent/blob/main/docs/configuration-reference.md#tempo_instance_config) for all available config options. 
For a quick start, refer to this [blog post](https://grafana.com/blog/2020/11/17/tracing-with-the-grafana-agent-and-grafana-tempo/).

<p align="center"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/846b971758c92b833a9efaf742ec5b3e2fbd0c89/docs/images/design-pipelines.png" alt="Tracing pipeline architecture"></p>

Having multiple tracing pipelines allows you to configure multiple distinct 

> pipelines, each of which collects separate spans and sends them to different 

Author: Uh, what? I think this was part of some edit haha. Thanks!

backends.

### Receiving traces

> The Grafana Agent supports multiple ingestion methods: 

Author: Nice catch, thanks

    kubernetes_sd_configs:
    - role: pod
    relabel_configs:
    - source_labels: [__meta_kubernetes_namespace]
      target_label: namespace
    - source_labels: [__meta_kubernetes_pod_name]
      target_label: pod
    - source_labels: [__meta_kubernetes_pod_container_name]
      target_label: container
    tls_config:
      ca_file: /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/ca.crt
      insecure_skip_verify: false
```

This feature isn’t just useful for Kubernetes users, however.
All of Prometheus' [various service discovery mechanisms](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/#configuration-file) are supported here.
This means you can use the same scrape_configs between your metrics, logs, and traces to get the same set of labels,
and easily transition between your observability data when moving from your metrics, logs, and traces.

To configure it, refer to the `scrape_configs` block in the [config reference](https://github.com/grafana/agent/blob/main/docs/configuration-reference.md#tempo_instance_config).

#### Trace discovery through automatic logging

Automatic logging writes well formatted log lines to help with trace discovery.

> For a closer look into the feature, visit [Automatic logging](./automatic-logging.md).

Reviewer: I think these links would need to be in this format - `[Automatic logging](automatic-logging)`

Author: Thanks! Fixed

## Architecture

The Grafana Agent can run a set of tracing instances, each of which configures its own pipeline.
Each pipeline is built using OpenTelemetry,
and its architecture mirrors that of the OTel Collector's [design](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/846b971758c92b833a9efaf742ec5b3e2fbd0c89/docs/design.md).
See the [configuration reference](https://github.com/grafana/agent/blob/main/docs/configuration-reference.md#tempo_instance_config) for all available config options. 
For a quick start, refer to this [blog post](https://grafana.com/blog/2020/11/17/tracing-with-the-grafana-agent-and-grafana-tempo/).

<p align="center"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/846b971758c92b833a9efaf742ec5b3e2fbd0c89/docs/images/design-pipelines.png" alt="Tracing pipeline architecture"></p>

Having multiple tracing pipelines allows you to configure multiple distinct 
pipelines, each of which collects separate spans and sends them to different 
backends.

### Receiving traces

The Grafana Agent supports multiple ingestion methods: 
OTLP (OpenTelemetry), Jaeger, Zipkin, OpenCensus and Kafka.

> Each tracing pipelines can be configured to receive traces in all these formats.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each tracing pipeline can be configured to receive traces in all these formats.
```

Traces that arrive to a pipeline will enter the same tracing 

> pipeline, and will be processed equally.

Reviewer 2: This sounds a bit confusing.

Author: Removed that last line, it should be clearer now

### Pipeline processing

The Grafana Agent processes tracing data as it flows through the pipeline to make the distributed tracing system more reliable and leverage the data for other purposes.
Such as trace discovery, tail-based sampling, and generating metrics.

#### Batching

The Agent supports batching of traces.

> Batching helps better compress the data, reduce the number of outgoing connections, and is a recommended best practice.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Batching helps better compress the data, reduces the number of outgoing connections, and is a recommended best practice.
```

---
title: Grafana Agent
weight: 400
---

# Grafana Agent

The [Grafana Agent](https://github.com/grafana/agent) is a telemetry 
collector for sending metrics, logs, and trace data to the opinionated 
Grafana observability stack.

It is commonly used as a tracing pipeline, offloading traces from the 

> application and forward them to a storage backend.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
application and forwarding them to a storage backend.
```

The Grafana Agent tracing stack is built using OpenTelemetry.

The Grafana Agent supports receiving traces in multiple formats:
OTLP (OpenTelemetry), Jaeger, Zipkin, OpenCensus and Kafka.

> It sends traces in OTLP format via gRPC.

Reviewer 2: Maybe it's interesting to use `exports` instead of `sends`.

On top of receiving and exporting traces, the Grafana Agent contains many 
features that make your distributed tracing system more robust, and 
leverages all the data that is processed in the pipeline.

> ## Architecture

Reviewer 2: I thought that this section can be a bit confusing for a beginner. Mostly the thing about running a set of Tempo instances. The new diagram that we've on Getting Started is lovely... 

Maybe we can create one for here?

Author: Right, the naming is not ideal. We can change it to tracing instances or tracing pipelines. WDYT?

Reviewer 2: I like pipelines :)

But no strong preference!

Reviewer 4: Sry, let me nit you one last time:

> The Grafana Agent can run a set of tracing instances, each of which configures its own pipeline.

Maybe this:
The Grafana Agent can be configured to run a set of tracing pipelines to collect data from your applications and write it to Tempo.

Author: Fixed, thanks!

> The Grafana Agent can run a set of Tempo instances, each of which configures its own tracing pipeline.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Grafana Agent can run multiple tracing listeners (based on Tempo), each of which configures its own tracing pipeline.
```

Something like this, to clarify it is not actually tempo.

> The Grafana Agent can run a set of Tempo instances, each of which configures its own tracing pipeline.

Author: Changed that named in favor of tracing pipeline or instance

Each pipeline is built using OpenTelemetry,

> and it's architecture mirrors that of the OTel Collector's [design](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/846b971758c92b833a9efaf742ec5b3e2fbd0c89/docs/design.md).

Reviewer 2: `it's` -> `its`

See the [configuration reference](https://github.com/grafana/agent/blob/main/docs/configuration-reference.md#tempo_instance_config) for all available config options. 
For a quick start, refer to this [blog post](https://grafana.com/blog/2020/11/17/tracing-with-the-grafana-agent-and-grafana-tempo/).

<p align="center"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/846b971758c92b833a9efaf742ec5b3e2fbd0c89/docs/images/design-pipelines.png" alt="Tracing pipeline architecture"></p>

Having multiple Tempo instances allows you to configure multiple distinct 
pipelines, each of which collects separate spans and sends them to different 
backends.

### Receiving traces

The Grafana Agent supports receiving traces in multiple different formats: 

> OTLP (OpenTelemetry), Jaeger, Zipkin, OpenCensus and Kafka.

Reviewer 2: We already said this above (line 16). Probably we don't need to list all the formats in the introduction.

Author: Changed slightly to avoid repetition, thanks

> OTLP (OpenTelemetry), Jaeger, Zipkin, OpenCensus and Kafka.

Author: Thanks for pointing it out, should be addressed now

Each Tempo instance can be configured to receive traces in all these formats.
Traces that arrive to a Tempo instance will enter the same tracing 
pipeline, and will be processed equally.

### Pipeline processing

The Grafana Agent processes tracing data as it flows through the pipeline to make the distributed tracing system more reliable and leverage the data for other purposes.
Such as trace discovery, tail-based sampling, and generating metrics.

> #### Batch

Reviewer 2: We have this sections:
- Attaching metadata with...
- Generating metrics from spans..
- Exporting spans..

Maybe it's interesting to change `Batch` to `Batching`.

The Agent supports batching of traces.

> Batching helps better compress the data and reduce the number of outgoing connections required to transmit the data.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Batching helps better compress the data, reduce the number of outgoing connections, and is a recommended best practice.
```

Is there a case when not to enable batching?

To configure it, refer to the `batch` block in the [config reference](https://github.com/grafana/agent/blob/main/docs/configuration-reference.md#tempo_instance_config).

#### Attributes manipulation

The Grafana Agent allows for general manipulation of tags on spans that pass through this agent.
A common use may be to add an environment or cluster variable.

> To configure it, refer to the `attributes` block in the [config reference](https://github.com/grafana/agent/blob/main/docs/configuration-reference.md#tempo_instance_config).

Reviewer 3: Usage of both `attributes` and `tags` here is somewhat confusing.  Can we pick 1 word for all instances, probably `attributes` to match the config option?

#### Attaching metadata with Prometheus Service Discovery

Prometheus Service Discovery mechanisms enable you to attach the same metadata to your traces as your metrics.

> For example, for Kubernetes users this means that you can dynamically attach metadata for namespace, pod, and container name of the container sending spans.

Reviewer 2: `metadata for namespace, pod, and container name of the container sending spans.`
to
`metadata for namespace, pod, and name of the container sending spans.`

    - role: pod
    relabel_configs:
    - source_labels: [__meta_kubernetes_namespace]
      target_label: namespace
    - source_labels: [__meta_kubernetes_pod_name]
      target_label: pod
    - source_labels: [__meta_kubernetes_pod_container_name]
      target_label: container
    tls_config:
      ca_file: /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/ca.crt
      insecure_skip_verify: false
```

This feature isn’t just useful for Kubernetes users, however.
All of Prometheus' [various service discovery mechanisms](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/#configuration-file) are supported here.
This means you can use the same scrape_configs between your metrics, logs, and traces to get the same set of labels,
and easily transition between your observability data when moving from your metrics, logs, and traces.

To configure it, refer to the `scrape_configs` block in the [config reference](https://github.com/grafana/agent/blob/main/docs/configuration-reference.md#tempo_instance_config).

#### Trace discovery through automatic logging

Automatic logging provides an easy and fast way of getting trace discovery through logs.

> Automatic logging writes a well formatted log line to a Loki instance for each span that is processed in the pipeline.

Reviewer 2: Maybe we can replace the second `Automatic logging` to avoid repetition.

> Automatic logging writes a well formatted log line to a Loki instance for each span that is processed in the pipeline.

Reviewer 4: also supports dumping to stdout

or, frankly, may want to just say "writes well formatted log lines to help with trace discovery" and leave details for the linked doc.

For a closer look into the feature, visit [Automatic logging](./automatic-logging.md).

#### Tail-based sampling

> The Agent implement tail-based sampling for distributed tracing systems and multi-instance Agent deployments.

Reviewer 2: `implement `-> `implements`

With this feature, sampling decisions can be made based on data from a trace, rather than exclusively with probabilistic methods.

For a detailed description, go to [Tail-based sampling](./tail-based-sampling.md).

#### Generating metrics from spans

The Agent can take advantage of the span data flowing through the pipeline to generate Prometheus metrics.

Go to [Span metrics](./span-metrics.md) for a more detailed explanation of the feature.

### Exporting spans

The Grafana Agent can export traces to multiple different backends for every tracing pipeline.
Exporting is built using OpenTelemetry Collector's [OTLP exporter](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/846b971758c92b833a9efaf742ec5b3e2fbd0c89/exporter/otlpexporter/README.md).

> The Agent supports exporting tracing in OTLP format.

Reviewer 2: We already said this. Probably we can remove this from the intro.

Author: Fixed, thanks!
